instructions/Preparation.md, before:

# Workshop setup - before you arrive

Please follow each of the steps below before arriving at RVSS:
- [Use pixi for package management](#use-pixi-for-package-management)
- [Clone the repository](#clone-the-repository)
- [Install dependencies](#install-dependencies)
- [Download the starter data](#download-the-starter-data)
- [Download Visual Studio Code for code development](#download-visual-studio-code-for-code-development)

# Use pixi for package management
In this workshop, we will use [pixi](https://pixi.prefix.dev/). Pixi is a package manager for Windows, Mac and Linux - it allows you to install packages similar to `apt`, `homebrew` and `vcpkg`. Pixi not only supports Python packages, but also packages in C/C++, FORTRAN, and much more.

Nothing that can be done with pixi cannot be achieved otherwise. However, with pixi it is usually easier, cross-platform and easier to reproduce.

Pixi handles dependencies seamlessly and makes it easy to set up different environments with different versions of libraries.

## Guide for setting up pixi

### Linux/MacOS
To install pixi you can run the following command in your terminal: 

```bash
curl -fsSL https://pixi.sh/install.sh | sh
```

### Windows
To install pixi in windows you can run the following command in the windows powershell:

```shell
powershell -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -c "irm -useb https://pixi.sh/install.ps1 | iex"
```



# Clone the repository
Before you attend the workshop, you will need a copy of this repository on your personal laptop. Clone the repository into your chosen folder on your personal laptop with this terminal command:

`git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/rvss-australia/RVSS_Need4Speed.git`

*If git its not installed in your system you can install it using pixi as `pixi global install git`*

# Install dependencies
Pixi's biggest strength is its ability to create reproducible, powerful, and flexible workspaces. A workspace lives in a directory on your system, and is a collection of Pixi environments that can be used to develop one or many projects in that directory. The dependencies and enviroments are defined in a [manifest file](../pixi.toml).

In order to install the dependencies you need to run the following command in the clonned RVSS_Need4Speed directory. 

```bash
cd RVSS_Need4Speed # if using the same terminal where the code was cloned
pixi install -a # Will install all enviroments supported by your computer
```

*In Windows you may need to enable [long path lengths](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/fileio/maximum-file-path-limitation?tabs=powershell#application-manifest-updates-to-declare-long-path-capability) if you get an error when creating the environment.*

## Check instalation

After the instalation is done you can check your install by running `pixi run test` or alternatively `pixi run -e cuda test` to check if the gpu is supported.


# Download the starter data
Navigate to the [huggingface dataset](https://huggingface.co/datasets/dimitym/RVSS_Need4Speed_starter/tree/main) and download data.zip. Place this inside your cloned repository and extract the zip file.

You should have a `data` folder that contains a `train_starter` and `val_starter` folder, containing 793 and 436 images respectively.


## Working with the environment:
If you are familiar with conda, you can also activate an environment in pixi by running `pixi shell` or `pixi shell -e cuda` if an nvidia gpu is available.


# Download Visual Studio Code for code development
We strongly recommend downloading Visual Studio Code to use as your code editor during the workshop. You can download VS Code [here]( https://code.visualstudio.com/). Please install at least the following two extensions: Python and Remote - SSH.

Commit message:

Add bypass for windows, and reorganize the instructions

instructions/Preparation.md, after:

# Workshop setup - before you arrive

Please follow each of the steps below before arriving at RVSS:
- [Use pixi for package management](#use-pixi-for-package-management)
- [Clone the repository](#clone-the-repository)
- [Install workspace](#install-workspace)
- [Download the starter data](#download-the-starter-data)
- [Download Visual Studio Code for code development](#download-visual-studio-code-for-code-development)

# Use pixi for package management
In this workshop, we will use [pixi](https://pixi.prefix.dev/). Pixi is a package manager for Windows, Mac and Linux - it allows you to install packages similar to `apt`, `homebrew` and `vcpkg`. Pixi not only supports Python packages, but also packages in C/C++, FORTRAN, and much more.

Nothing that can be done with pixi cannot be achieved otherwise. However, with pixi it is usually easier, cross-platform and easier to reproduce.

Pixi handles dependencies seamlessly and makes it easy to set up different environments with different versions of libraries.

## Guide for setting up pixi

### Linux/MacOS
To install pixi you can run the following command in your terminal: 

```bash
curl -fsSL https://pixi.sh/install.sh | sh
```

### Windows
To install pixi in windows you can run the following command in the windows powershell:

```shell
powershell -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -c "irm -useb https://pixi.sh/install.ps1 | iex"
```



# Clone the repository
Before you attend the workshop, you will need a copy of this repository on your personal laptop. Clone the repository into your chosen folder on your personal laptop with this terminal command:

`git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/rvss-australia/RVSS_Need4Speed.git`

*If git its not installed in your system you can install it using pixi as `pixi global install git`*

# Install workspace
Pixi's biggest strength is its ability to create reproducible, powerful, and flexible workspaces. A workspace lives in a directory on your system, and is a collection of Pixi environments that can be used to develop one or many projects in that directory. The dependencies and enviroments are defined in a [manifest file](../pixi.toml).

In order to install the dependencies you need to run the following command in the cloned RVSS_Need4Speed directory. 

```bash
cd RVSS_Need4Speed # if using the same terminal where the code was cloned
pixi install -a # Will install all enviroments supported by your computer
```

*In Windows you may need to enable [long path lengths](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/fileio/maximum-file-path-limitation?tabs=powershell#application-manifest-updates-to-declare-long-path-capability) if you get an error when creating the environment.*

## Working with the environment:
If you are familiar with conda, you can also activate an environment in pixi by running `pixi shell` or `pixi shell -e cuda` if an nvidia gpu is available.

*In windows you may need to run the command as `powershell -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -c "pixi shell" ` if running scripts are disabled in the system*

## Check instalation

After the instalation is done you can check your install by running `pixi run test` or alternatively `pixi run -e cuda test` to check if the gpu is supported.


# Download the starter data
Navigate to the [huggingface dataset](https://huggingface.co/datasets/dimitym/RVSS_Need4Speed_starter/tree/main) and download data.zip. Place this inside your cloned repository and extract the zip file.

You should have a `data` folder that contains a `train_starter` and `val_starter` folder, containing 793 and 436 images respectively.




# Download Visual Studio Code for code development
We strongly recommend downloading Visual Studio Code to use as your code editor during the workshop. You can download VS Code [here]( https://code.visualstudio.com/). Please install at least the following two extensions: Python and Remote - SSH.
